
  REPROGRAMMING

  Reprogramming the application section of an ATMega328P device is commonly
  performed using avrdude(1). Whereas this method can be used for a device
  with an external serial connection and optiboot, another method is used to
  reprogram the internal devices that use twiboot.

  EXTERNAL DEVICES

  The bali device has an external serial connection and uses a modified version
  of the optiboot bootloader that has no auto reset or timeout. Instead it
  reads a bootloader switch and remains within the main loop until instructed
  to exit.
 
  To enter the bootloader, the bootloader switch should be closed and an
  external reset should be applied by one of these three methods:-

      - press the reset button
      - in CLI mode, enter 'reboot self'
      - in INP mode, enter 'q'

  The application section can now be reprogrammed at leisure using avrdude(1).

  Example:
      From within the bali source directory:-
      $ make flash

  INTERNAL DEVICES

  The internal devices use a modified version of the twiboot bootloader.
  The modifications are similar to above in reading the bootloader switch
  and remaining within the main loop until instructed to exit.

  These devices use bali as a proxy to reprogram the application using
  avril(1) or the complete image, fuses and lock bits using avp(1).

  The ISP, ICSP and HVPP tasks accept Intel hex files with some limitations,
  in that the length of each record must not exceed 16 data bytes and each
  record must begin on a 16-byte boundary, to ensure that a record does not
  straddle an SPM page boundary. 

  Generating an Intel hex file directly from the elf file can produce records
  that straddle an SPM page boundary, whereas if a Motorola S-record file is
  generated from the elf file, and an Intel hex file is then generated from
  the S-record file, the 16-byte alignment is maintained.
 
  There are three methods available to reprogram the internal devices:-

  1. In-system programming (ISP) uses avril(1) to reprogram the application
     section only. The bootloader, fuses, lock bits, signature and calibration
     bytes are not accessible via this method.

     An application image is written to the flash memory. This image is
     created using 'make' from within the target application directory.
     It is named using the application name, for example fido.hex.

     It is most important that the target device does not receive any other
     network communications during the reprogramming operation, as this will
     cause the operation to fail and require the use of the ICSP method.

     Unless the flash memory is blank, the bootloader switch must be closed
     in order to enter the bootloader.

     Examples:
         From within the bali source directory:-
         $ avril fido

         Multiple devices may be given:-
         $ avril fido iowa oslo peru pisa goat

  2. In-circuit serial programming (ICSP) uses avp(1) to reprogram the
     entire flash memory, the fuses except SPIEN (High Fuse Byte, bit 0x20)
     and the lock bits.

     The ICSP task is hosted on both bali and iowa, and accessable via the 1L
     INP command which enables iowa to reprogrammed by bali, and bali by iowa.
     Neither bali nor iowa can reprogram itself.

     The power must be removed before connecting or disconnecting the
     ICSP cable.

     A complete image is written to the flash memory. This image is created
     using 'make image' from within the target application directory.

     Examples:
         From within the bali or iowa source directory:-
         $ (cd ../fido && make avp)

         To reprogram bali from within the iowa source directory:-
         $ (cd ../bali && make avp)

         To reprogram iowa from within the bali source directory:-
         $ (cd ../iowa && make avp)

  3. High voltage parallel programming (HVPP) uses avp(1) to reprogram the
     entire flash memory, fuses and lock bits.

     Only the DIP-28 packages are supported as the device must be removed from
     its circuit and placed in a ZIF socket where the operation is performed.

     In some cases this method may be able to recover a device which has been
     bricked using the ICSP method.

     A complete image is written to the flash memory. This image is created
     using 'make image' from within the target application directory.

     Example:
         From within the goat source directory:-
         $ (cd ../fido && make avp)

